hey it's Dan McDonald the life
regenerator what's up you asked for it
you got it we're going to keep with
these recipes that are real practical
and inexpensive and simple to do and I'm
going to have Darrow run you through
this one so what are we going to do
today
sauerkraut alright thank you hi
everybody its Dara and I am here with
Dan the man and this is our first time
making sauerkraut and it's not just any
sauerkraut it's raw living sauerkraut
not the cooked kind and the reason we're
making it today is that you can go to
the store and buy sauerkraut and if you
can find the living stuff it's really
expensive so we want to make you
independent of all of that expensive
food so I'm going to show you what's
involved dan can you show them sure okay
go ahead and start so basically I'm
going to show you the tools that we need
a sharp knife a cutting board we have a
big glass jar so that we're going to put
all the sauerkraut in here after the
cabbage and all the vegetable
ingredients are inside we're going to
weight it down with a plate inside and
glass of water a jar of water to push it
down so we have as far as the vegetables
you can use a lot of different things
but cabbage is the main ingredient onion
we have garlic
we have daikon radish and carrots we're
going to use a little bit of salt and
that's it so first I'm going to show you
how to properly cut a cabbage if there's
an easy way to do it so you're going to
kind of cut it in half first okay and
you kind of take out the outside layer
and I'm going to cut in a little v-shape
to cut out the core and that's it and
you just cut it in half like this
and we're going to end up putting it in
the Cuisinart with the shredding blade
and I will show you so that's the
cabbage I'm going to end up doing
that one the same way this is the daikon
raddish my favorite do you juice the
entities oh you can okay cool I save
them so I peeled one and we're going to
end up Dan said he likes this one kind
of sauerkraut that has little um slices
of it little round disks so I'm going to
use this little handy mandolin and I
highly recommend using a glove to
protect your fingers there are ways
there are mandolins that have a little
safety a safety guard but I like to do
it this way so I think that's in the
daikon by hand if you want to absolutely
do it you can do all of this by hand you
can just Finlay slice everything but for
speed the Cuisinart does wonders cool
so everything can be done by hand every
great down my hand and so um so what
we're about to do is independence raw
living sauerkraut to make you
independent of expensive raw food so
what do we want to do first I guess I'll
show you the radish the daikon yeah go
ahead
okay so we just kind of take it like
that then you get these little pieces
see and there's some more perfect ones
you can get perfectly round once you get
in the swing of it it gets a lot easier
so then you make a whole big bowl of
those and I'm not going to do the whole
thing while you're watching we're going
to cut this and then come back when all
of the pieces are ready to go into
please and iron is that we're going to
do uh show them a little bit with the
cabbage shred the cabbage okay show them
a little bit of everything and then it
will take a break and we'll chop
everything up okay so oh this goes back
on so this is the shredding blade it's
goes like this usually the s blade goes
at the bottom of the Cuisinart and this
one sticks I couldn't figure out what to
do with it when I got mine and I finally
watched the video and there we go so it
goes like that
like shut and turn
okay so all you want to do is this is
the private times nine we have to do
this a little bit thinner
actually you can you can put put it down
right in there okay there you go
No
so that's the cabbage we're going to do
the green and the purple and then we can
do the same thing with carrots shoma
carrot I like to do this part
so to sum it up what you do is you take
everything that you see here and you
shred it or chop it in any way that you
see fit yeah so but basically we're
going to just run everything through the
shredder here so and then the one
important thing that you need is a nice
big bowl because you're going to put all
the ingredients in here and squeeze them
and let them sit with the salt so that
they have juices and jus and when it's
juicy that's when you can put it into
the glass container so we'll get to that
part okay cool so we're going to take a
little break here and we're going to
shred and chop everything and then we'll
come right back so stay tuned all right
back everybody and what we've done so
far basically decided to shred
everything in the Cuisinart including
the daikon radish because it was going
to take a little bit longer to make
little mandolin slices so everything has
been shredded it's beautiful it's
colorful and now I'm going to add some
salt probably about 4 teaspoons and the
salt is going to help break it down and
get the juices out of the vegetables so
that there's enough liquid so what we're
going to do is mix it now with your
hands and gives it a really good mix and
in about a half an hour this should be
juicy enough so that when we put it into
the glass container there will be enough
juices from the vegetables to cover the
vegetables so you want a little bit of
liquid rising above which is why we're
going to wait it down and push with the
plate so that the juices stay on top so
it stays moist and the premise is is
that the vegetables are going to forget
and their sugars and the vegetables are
going to start digesting themselves so
that the digestive enzymes are in play
so we don't have to work so hard our
body doesn't have to use its own
digestive
times to work to digest it so it's easy
to digest and it's healthy flora so
there you have it we're gonna let this
sit and come back to you a little bit
thanks Steve okay so what's next okay so
what's next is that everything has been
kind of marinated in its own juices
between the salt and my really squeezing
I got a lot of the liquid out of the
vegetables so now we're ready to put it
into this Josie how much liquid is down
in there hey Dad
oh good yeah it's work okay then I'm
gonna fill it about three-quarters of
the way full and you want to check it
every day and if there's any foam or any
mold you're going to remove it and
depending on the temperature of the room
you want to do it keep it store it in a
dark kind of not too hot not too cold
room and in about four days
approximately it could be ready and
you'll taste it and see if it's sour
enough for you so you can always leave
it to ferment longer and once you're
ready you keep it in a sealed glass jar
in the refrigerator and it could last
for awhile and it's nice you'll have a
lot for your family some people say you
should be eating these things with every
meal probiotics cool so let me see here
we spent about ten bucks on vegetables
and it's usually 10 bucks for a little
jar yeah what's a little jar I'll show
you guys a jar if we still have that
here it is so this these jars right here
are ten bucks okay so we just made about
four ten bucks we probably made about
six of those so so we've got six times
our money's worth by making the
sauerkraut ourselves and we're about
twenty minutes into the process from the
time that we started chopping the
vegetables and then we she marinated it
here with her hands for about five or
eight minutes or so so it's really not
as time consuming as I thought very
really easy and you can
you can just eat lots of it and not feel
guilty that you're just you know wasting
money and this helps you to be
independent to be able to be a raw
foodist and not have to spend so much
money so we're really conscious about
giving you some recipes that are
affordable and accessible so I'm placing
this right in here okay and I'm going to
press it down so that the juices cover
the vegetables and then you weight it
with a clean large clean stone or a
mason jar filled with water and it press
down
let everything's really covered with its
juices so we can begin to digest itself
yeah and then ideally I think that the
jar would be a little bit lower we could
have filled it a little bit less but you
cover it with a towel and there you go
and then in about four days it'll smell
really funky and it'd be really good for
you so I hope you enjoyed that anything
else can I think you did a fantastic job
I want to thank you so much for sharing
this stuff with everyone I'm sure they
really appreciate it I know I do I'm
counting down the days till we get the
grub on that stuff thanks a lot Darrell
my pleasure
see you soon everybody take care guys we
love you peace